-: Welcome back.
In this lecture, we are going to understand
about how we are going to deploy
our applications in relation with AWS X-Ray on EKS cluster.
So everything we are going to look into it
from a network perspective,
how it is going to look like.
So let's go there and in AWS Cloud,
so when we create a EKS cluster,
it is going to create equivalent VPC
and then public subnets
and then private subnets and then NAT gateway.
But one thing important here,
you need to observe from our previous network diagrams is
like I have depicted only one availability zone.
So I didn't depict one more availability zone
because of lack of space
for the depiction on my presentation.
So whatever you are seeing 1A,
the same thing also will be there
in another availability zone also.
But here I depicted only one thing
due to multiple components I need to cover in this depiction
and then which you want to see it
and the same thing will be available
in another availability zone also.
So now, these things will get automatically created.
So whenever you create a worker node group
means like whenever you create a EKS managed node group,
so it also creates a worker node
and whatever the applications deployed on this worker node
and also this worker node related kubelet
and all those stuff will communicate to the EKS cluster
using NAT gateway.
Why because these worker nodes are created
in the private subnet.
So moving on, whenever you deploy a X-Ray as a DaemonSet
so it is going to create its X-Ray pods per worker node,
one X-Ray pod
and then it is going to expose
that respective X-Ray pod related application
using X-Ray cluster IP service.
So the next thing is we deploy our UMS deployment
means like user management application
and then notification application.
So it will have its own stuff.
UMS will have its own node port service
and then MySQL external name service.
So notification service
will have its notification cluster IP service
and it's SMTP external name service
to send the emails via simple email service
and its own deployments, UMS deployment
and then notification service deployment.
So the next thing is,
so you will also create your ingress service
which is nothing but your application load balancer
in the public subnet.
And then whenever you create the ingress service,
it will reference the SSL certificate
from the certificate manager
and also you're going to register your DNS name
with inside the route 53
so using external DNS.
So that's about the ingress service.
Now when users want to access,
so the application.
So for X-Ray, I have provided a dedicated microservice.
So all other microservices,
whatever you have seen like create user, delete user
or health status, those are different.
And then for X-Ray related thing, so in this UMS
and then in notification I have written the code
with X-Ray SDK to enable the X-Ray tracing
for only this respective microservice,
which means you are calling
a notification X-Ray microservice
from user management microservice.
So what happens at that time?
So you can see here
ums.q1cloud.com/usermgmt/notification X-Ray.
So the request comes to the UMS ingress service
and then it will go to the UMS node port service
and then request will go to UMS pod.
And then from there
it'll go to the notification cluster IP service
because you are calling the notification X-Ray service here.
And then from there request will come back
to the notification pod
and then serve the response whatever I have requested.
So that's what happens on a entire flow basis
whenever you access this respective URL.
So what next?
So whenever it came to UMS pod, it will analyze that traffic
and then it will send the details
to the X-Ray cluster IP service
from which it will go to the X-Ray pod.
In the same way, whenever the request
came to notification service microservice pod,
so from here, to access this notification X-Ray service
it is going to send the traces to X-Ray cluster IP service
from which it will send to X-Ray pod.
So this X-Ray pod will take the responsibility to connect
to our X-Ray service via NAT gateway.
Why, because everything is in private subnet,
it'll go via NAT gateway to our AWS X-Ray.
So now till here everything is good.
So when you access other stuff,
which is nothing but you worked on create user stuff,
so user management create user,
it will come to MySQL
and then it'll store the data in RDS database
and then it'll go to the notification service.
From notification service, it will go to SMTP
via NAT gateway, it will go to simple email service
and then send the email to the end user.
But for this create user flow, whatever is there,
we really didn't enable the X-Ray stuff.
So means like X-Ray stuff in the sense,
X-Ray stuff for contacting the services.
In the sense like,
from this service to this service, how it is contacting?
So there will be a different way
to call one service calling another service in our code
to show them as one service calling another service.
So even if you call a create user service,
it will be depicted in our X-Ray,
but when it is calling notification service
it will consider as a different client
in the sense like it's a different node in the X-Ray.
That's the reason whenever you are testing,
try to test it with notification X-Ray
so that you will get the complete picture
how it is going to look like.
So the reason is there will be different ways
to call our services from one service to another service.
So in microservices, this is specifically
a one minute introduction I'm going to give,
what I've done here.
So when you are calling a notification health status
from our user management microservice,
I'm using REST template,
which is the Spring Boot standard way of calling
the REST services, one service to another service
in microservices.
But whenever I'm calling the notification X-Ray,
it needs something called HttpClientBuilder
which means like
I'm trying to use the X-Ray related thing here,
which is nothing but X-Ray related HttpClientBuilder.
So that's the reason whenever I call the X-Ray in this model
with client builder, then only it is going to show
that one service calling another service.
So whenever I do with REST template,
what happens is whenever you call
your notification health status from user management,
it is going to show in a different way in the X-Ray.
We are going to see that in detail in our,
when we are doing the implementation.
But I am trying to explain that
and then nail down for you
that whenever you access this respective service
then it is going to show you
how I am seeing the nodes,
in the same way you are going to see it.
So like this.
So how I see it, user management microservice
calling the notification microservice,
how I am seeing,
when you test also it is going to look this way only.
When you call that respective notification X-Ray service.
Other services, whatever we have done earlier
is not going to be same way.
Now what is service map?
You can see that as a client,
whenever I access it as a client,
so it went to UMS node port service,
from there it went to notification service
and then sent the traces to X-Ray.
The whole thing happened.
So here also it's the same thing.
So as a client, as a user,
I came and then I called the user management microservice
and then from there
it went into the notification microservice
and then served my notification X-Ray thing.
So now you can see that we have also labeled it
with user management microservice
and then V1 notification microservice, everything
and then we are seeing all this in our X-Ray service map.
Next thing is traces.
So whenever you want to trace this respective thing,
so what happened and then for this respective call
what happened I want to see, so you can see it in detail.
So whenever I called that notification X-Ray,
it came to user management microservice
and then it went to V1 notification microservice.
So what happened in user management microservice?
You can see it here.
It went to a method get notification app info,
that is the method.
So let's crosscheck that.
So you can see, get notification app info,
it went here in the code.
And from here it is the thing.
So from it,
you called like this
get services kube1 cloud/user management notification X-Ray,
it went to this respective method
and then from there it is calling
remote get 8096/notification/xray.
So that is the thing it is going to call.
So which means it is trying to call this URL
notification.service.xray URL.
So which will be present in here.
So notification/xray in our application properties.
So it called this link.
And then from when it is calling this link,
this get notification app info forwarded the request
to our notification cluster IP service.
So that's what is present in our architecture also,
notification cluster IP service
from user management microservice,
you'll go to notification cluster IP service.
So from here again where you went?
You went into the notification microservice
which is the microservice respective pod or container.
So inside that you have something called
notification app version service method.
So from that you served the content.
So what happened end to end, you'll be able to see here
in a detailed trace information.
So now next level, which means like again if you click
on this user management microservice
or this notification microservice,
so this is nothing but a container.
So this respective container.
So EKS container.
So you are going to see the segments in detail.
So what is that segments is like?
So from start time, end time, duration
and then the request URL is this one
and the request method is get
and user agent to generate this request,
means like who is the user agent is I used the postman
so it is showing postman.
And the request client type it is showing,
all this information,
you will see in the overview tag of our segment section.
So how we get the segment section is
whenever we click on this, double click on this,
we get this entire section.
So in addition to that, as this is a EKS thing,
so I enable the EKS plugin in my code.
So if you see here, in my code
if I go to X-Ray and then X-Ray config.
So if you see here,
I enabled the EKS plugin also with my code.
So due to that what it will do is like,
where is this?
Yeah, so it will provide that EC2,
I also enabled the EC2 plug in.
So it will show on which instance ID
and those information it will provide
and X-Ray information it will provide.
But you can see the most important thing
in the resources section is EKS section.
So in EKS section, you can find inside pod,
pod information to which pod this request went in?
So exactly that pod name it is provided.
And inside that pod which container this request went in.
So that information also it has provided.
So this completes the introduction for our X-Ray end-to-end.
So in our next lectures, we are going to go ahead
and then implement the X-Ray with our microservices.
So I'll see you in the next lecture
until then, bye bye.
Thank you.